---
#necessary to implement the proper CSS. ONLY CHANGE if the article needs a special layout. IE if its a special
layout: article

title: CDC Tells The Vaccinated To Mask Up In Some Settings. Our Questionnaire Can Guide You.
#If this author has more than one article, make sure to spell it *exactly* the same as on the other articles
author: Sheila Mulrooney Eldred

#image that will appear at the top of the article, in the thumbnail, and when article is shared on social media
thumbnail: "/posts-thumbnails/2021-07-26-test-5.jpg"
thumbnail-description: "Some stock image NPR got of people wearing a mask on a theme park ride"
thumbnail-credit: "Allen J. Schaben for Los Angeles Times. Via Getty Images"

#this will appear as the summary of the article at the top of the page, on the main page, and in the meta description for SEO
excerpt: "NPR made a little Q&A for new mask requirements in light of the Delta variant. I plagerized it as a placeholder"
---

*The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is now recommending face coverings for vaccinated people in certain situations. Please tell me exactly when to wear mask up.*

If you hung your mask up in May after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said face coverings were no longer necessary for vaccinated people, you're probably not eager to start masking up once more. And with today's announcement that some vaccinated people should mask up again in certain situations because of the spread of the highly contagious Delta variant, your head may be spinning.

The new guidance is targeted at vaccinated people who live in areas with "high and substantial transmission" and focuses on indoor settings.

Given that the recent rise in hospitalizations is probably due to people no longer wearing masks at the appropriate time, says Charlotte Baker, assistant professor of epidemiology at Virginia Tech, many health experts welcomed the reversal.

But there are many unanswered questions, as people look for guidance in specific situations: Do I really need to mask up at the grocery store? How about on a college campus that requires students to be vaccinated? What about roller coasters?

"It's so subjective and situational," says May Chu, a clinical professor of epidemiology at the Colorado School of Public Health, who led the research on masks and respirators for the World Health Organization. "It's easier to think it through if you know what the risks are that you need to evaluate."

To help you assess and mitigate your risk in specific situations, we asked specialists in ventilation, masking, public health and infectious disease for their input. They recommend thinking about the following questions when deciding whether to doff or don. Warning: The first few questions have easy answers, but they get trickier.

*Are you vaccinated?*

This is one of the only clear-cut answers: If you haven't gotten jabbed yet, your risk in any public situation is high enough to wear a mask always.

*Will everyone else there be vaccinated?*

On the flip side, when you're sure everyone else is vaccinated, experts agree the risk is so low there's no need to mask.

*Do you have a cold, flu or COVID-19-like symptoms?*

If you do, quarantine at home (and get tested if you have symptoms of COVID-19). And if you have just a garden-variety cold or flu and have to go out, wear a mask for the health of everyone around you.