---
#necessary to implement the proper CSS. ONLY CHANGE if the article needs a special layout. IE if its a special
layout: article

title: The Problem with Robin Diangelo
#If this author has more than one article, make sure to spell it *exactly* the same as on the other articles
author: Nathan J. Robinson

#image that will appear at the top of the article, in the thumbnail, and when article is shared on social media
thumbnail: "/posts-thumbnails/2021-07-15-test-4.jpg"
thumbnail-description: "A picture i stole from current affairs of Robin Diangelo and her fun lil book that a lot of people hate apparently."
thumbnail-credit: "Current Affairs. I wouldn't be surprised if Robinson personally edited it."

#this will appear as the summary of the article at the top of the page, on the main page, and in the meta description for SEO
excerpt: "Nathan J. Robinson wrote a whole article where he rants about Robn DiAngelo. He also talks about good things we can do"
---

At this point, it’s difficult not to have heard about Robin DiAngelo, the sociologist and consultant who specializes in anti-racism training. Her book White Fragility: Why It’s So Hard to Talk To White People About Racism has been a bestseller. The New York Times calls her “a phenomenon.” As of the time of this writing, she has given a talk to 184 Democratic members of Congress, been on The Tonight Show, and made a lot of money giving anti-racism workshops at America’s largest corporations such as Google, Amazon, and Microsoft.

DiAngelo is detested by many on the right, the center, and some on the left. The New York Post says she is the “P.T. Barnum of American race relations” perpetrating a “racial con job.” Matt Taibbi is harshly critical of DiAngelo for “urging us to put race even more at the center of our identities, and fetishize the unbridgeable nature of our differences.” Jonathan Chait of New York magazine says she has pioneered “a business model spreading kooky, harmful, and outright racist ideas.” Jacobin editor Bhaskar Sunkara was equally critical, arguing that inclusivity seminars like the ones she runs protect power rather than challenging it. 

So what’s really so bad about Robin DiAngelo? Is her model of anti-racism training a helpful way to make American society less racist? Or is she, as her most vicious critics say, a huckster who has found a way to make money off making white people feel bad about racism? 

There is, as I see it, one core problem with DiAngelo’s work, a problem that ultimately makes it more harmful than helpful. To examine it, let’s look at the last chapter of the book, titled “Where Do We Go From Here?” Interestingly—and probably not coincidentally—this is also the name of Martin Luther King’s final book, published in 1967. In it, King advocated a guaranteed income, the abolition of poverty, and the organizing of a broad, multiracial labor movement. DiAngelo’s “Where Do We Go From Here?” is very different in its prescriptions. She begins the chapter with an anecdote about a time when she accidentally offended a Black woman by making a joke that did not land, and discusses how she offered to “repair the racism I perpetrated toward you.” She then discusses the ways we can manage our feelings when told that we have done something racist. She suggests ways to “interrupt racism” including:

- Minimize our defensiveness
- Demonstrate our vulnerability
- Demonstrate our curiosity and humility
- Allow for growth
- Stretch our worldview
- Ensure action
- Demonstrate that we practice what we profess to value
- Build authentic relationships and trust
- Interrupt privilege-protecting comfort
- Interrupt internalized superiority 

Her “Where Do We Go From Here?” does not mention the racial injustices that concerned King, such as the confining of large numbers of African Americans to neighborhoods that lacked adequate jobs, housing, and public services. The “we” in her “where do we go from here” is white people, and what we apparently need to do most of all is be “willing to tolerate the discomfort associated with an honest appraisal and discussion of our internalized superiority and racial privilege” and “work with one another on our white fragility.” DiAngelo says directly: “In answer to the question “where do we go from here, I offer that we must never consider ourselves finished with our learning.” Her strategy of anti-racist practice leans heavily on the internal transformation and self-improvement of white people, who must overcome their internalized racism.

> Pass legislation to expand public health care to all U.S. residents without conditions, including citizenship or work requirements, covering the full range of health care needs, including comprehensive contraception, abortion, and reproductive health care and technologies, maternal health care, comprehensive coverage of health care needs of trans, intersex and gender nonconforming people, elders, people living with the full spectrum of disabilities, and HIV, mental wellness treatment, no cost cancer screening, dental and eye care, interpreters and patient advocates, and coverage of allopathic and homeopathic care,  through accessible, patient-centered, and comprehensive health care, including neighborhood-based health centers and home-based care.